General Purpose Instances:
	1.balanced of computing,Memory and Networking resource.
	2.for varity of workload
	
	A Series:
		A1(medium,large)-Scale out workload.
		webserver
		container for microservice.
		caching fleet.
	M Series:
		M4,M5,M5a,M5ad(large).
		M4- intel xenon,nytro EBS only storage
		M5- max ram,gaming server,small and medium db.
		EBS and NVMe SSD.
	T Series:
		T2 Micro,T3,T3a(small,Nano)
		web app,web server
		5 to 40% cpu usage
		testing code 
		web server.
		
Ccompute Optimized:
	1.Compute bound/intensive Application.
	2.cost effective for compute.
		C-Series:
		C4,C5,C5n
		Virtual CPU:2 to 36
		RAM:3.75 to 60GB
		EBS only
		Webserver,Batch processing,Video gaming.
Memory Optimized Instance:
	    R,X,Z Series
		
		R4,R5,R5ad,R5d:(RAM Focused)
			Relational,NonRelational DB.
			InMemory caching.
			VCPU:2 to 96
			RAM:16-760GB
			EBS only
		X1,X1e:(max Memory)
			VPCU:4 to 128
			RAM:122 to 3904GB
			Instance Storage:SSD
			SAP HANA
		Z1d:(Hibrid of R and X type)
			40 GHz Fequency
			AWS Nytro system.
			Xeon Processor
			1.8TB Instance Storage.
			VCPU:2 to 48GB
			RAM:16 to 284GB
			Stogare:NVM SSD.
			

EC2 Purchase Option:
	1.On demand:(when you dont know the timing of running)
		a.AWS & AWS RDS
		b.Short term workload recomended.
		c.Testing and Dev work.
		d.pay only used timing(hourly costed for windows and other,per second costed for linux and ubuntu)
		e.terminated and stop timing can not be billed for instance but for stop EBS storage will be billed.
	2.Dedicated Instance
		a.set of virtuaized  dedicated ec2(not for other type) to a particular user.
	3.Dedicated Host
		a.dedicated physical server for software compliance.
		b.cannot be migrated.
	4.Spot
		a.cheapest
		b.bid done from aws for idle instances any type
		c.testing only
		d.2 mins of warning time for data saving before being stopped.
	5.Reserved
		a.for whole year reserved.(1-3 year,advanced payment required).
		b.75% chepaer according to on demand instances.
		c.database instances.
		d.Scheduled RI,Standard RI,Convertible RI(upto 54% cheaper).
	6.Schedule
		a. for particular timestamp or day.
		b. once allocated bill will be generated.
	7.Bare Metal
		a.direct access for hardware and ownership also.
		b.I3 Metal,R5 Metal,Z1dMetal
		c.this is applicable for advanced compliance case.
	
EC2 Access:

	1.To Accesss Instancs,we need a key and key pair name.
	2.You can download the private key only once.
	3.the public key is saved by AWS.to match it to the key pair name and private key when you try to login to the EC2 Instanca.
	4.Without key pair you cannot access instances via RDP or SSH.
	5.There is 20 EC2 instances soft limit of account,you can request AMAZON for extension.
	
EC2 Status Check:
	1. 1 minute automatic Status check.
	2. Inbuilt facility.
	3. By cloudwatch default time 5min,less than this can be charged.
	4. Stop instance can not be chargable but assocaited EBS will be chargable.
	5.When an EC2 instance is launched, AWS checks whether that ec2 is able to connect to the network or not. It does so in two steps.

	Step 1: System check, this checks for proper hardware configuration of the instance at host level. It should be noted that you can not check these. These are aws managed. The best you can do is just stop and start the Instance in case system checks fail. It simply deallocates the previous VM and a new VM on different hardware is provisioned. If you want to retain public IP and other related stuff, you can configure Auto Recovery of instance from cloudwatch console.

	Step 2 : Instance check, this check is done to check software(os) level configuration of the instance. This can be looked into by you. If this check fails then you will need to check either user data/ launch configuration or AMI/OS configuration.
	
When you Stop an EBS based EC2 Instance:(Intance storage directly attached with Server inside)
	(Root volume will be on EBS)
	1.Instances perform Shut down.
	2.State Running->Stop
	3.EBS volume remains attached to instances.
	4.Any data cached in RAM on instance store will be gone.
	5.only private IP4 and IP6 will be remain same.
	6.Instances Releases Public IPV4 address back to AWS pool.
	7.Instances Retain Elastic IP(Permanent IP) Address.
	
	
When you terminate Instance:
	1.EBS root volume will be deleted by default.(can be chnaged Delete On Termination)
	2.additioncal volume will be remain
	3.Once instance terminated it will be shown in console upto 1 hr.
	4.EC2 Tarmination Protection should be enabled for any accidental termination.
	
EC2 Metadata:
	1.Instance related data.
	
Instances User Data:
	1.to put script while booting the inststance.
	2.16KB max size of the script.
	3.This data cannot be encrypted.
	
-----------------------------------------------------
EC2 FAQ:

1./dev/sdc=none,Prevents /dev/sdc from attaching to the instance.
Suppresses an existing mapping of the device from the AMI used to launch the instance. For example: “/dev/sdc=none”.

2.A security group acts as a virtual firewall that controls the traffic for one or more instances.

3.ec2-create-group CreateSecurityGroup-->Creates a new security group for use with your account.

4.While performing the volume status checks, if the status is insufficient-data-->the checks may still be in progress on the volume

5.By default, when an EBS volume is attached to a Windows instance, it may show up as any drive letter on the
instance. You can change the settings of the "Ec2Config Service" Service to set the drive letters of the EBS volumes per your
specifications.

6.For each DB Instance class, what is the maximum size of associated storage capacity-6TB

7.To view information about an Amazon EBS volume, open the Amazon EC2 console at
https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/, click Volumes in the Navigation pane.

8.You must increase storage size in increments of at least 10%

9.CreateSnapshot creating the snapshots using the API.

10.Are Reserved Instances available for Multi-AZ Deployments--Yes for all instance types

11.What is the command line instruction for running the remote desktop client in Windows--mstsc

12.


	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
	
		

		