IAM:
	Identity Access Management is a webservice that helps us securely control access to aws resources.using IAM ,AWS controls authentication and authorization to use resources.
	
	when you first create an AWS account ,root account with singl sign on identity that has completely access to all AWS services and resourcs.
	
	AWS recomends that you do not use root user for everyday task,even the admin tasks.
	
	IAM user limit is 500 for AWS account,you can add upto 10 users at a time.
	
	You are also limited to 300 groups per AWS account.
	
	you are limited to 1000 roles under AWS account.
	
	default limit of managed policies atatched to an IAM roles and IAM users as 10.
	
	IAM user can be member of 10 groups(max)
	
	We can assign two access key(max) to an IAM User.
	
	
1.Shared access to AWS Accout:

	you can grant other people permissio to admin and use resources in yout AWS account without having to share your access credentials.

2.Granular Permission:
	
	you can grant different level of permission to different people for different resources.
	
	for instance you can complete access to EC2,S3,DynamoDB while for others you can allow read only access to just some S3 bucket.
	
3.Secure Access for application:
	
	you can use IAM featuresto securely give access for running application.
	
4.Multifactor Authentication:
	
	you can add two factor authentication to your account ad to individual database.(google authenticator)
	
5.Identity Federation:
	
	you can allow user who already has access elsewhere.
	
6.Identity information for Assurance:

	using cloudtrail you canmonitor logs.
	
7.PCI DSS compliance:
	
	payment gateway complient for payment card for security.
	
8.Eventually consistant:

	activity of IAM realted will be saved else where and reflection will take time.
	
	
IAM Terms:

	1.Principal
	2.Request
	3.Authentication
	4.Authorization
	5.Action/Ops
	6.Resources
	
	
------------------------------------------
IAM FAQ:


1.In regards to IAM you can edit user properties later, but you cannot use the console to change the-- username

2.Accessing IAM:
	1 – AWS Management Console
	2 – AWS Command Line Tools
	3 – AWS SDKs (i.e. Existing libraries)
	4 – IAM HTTPS API
	
3.When you use the AWS Management Console to delete an IAM user, IAM also deletes any signing certificates
and any access keys belonging to the user-Yes

4.What is the default maximum number of MFA devices in use per AWS account (at the root account level)?--1
	
	