Lambda:
	1.Lambda is a compute service that lets you run code without provisoning or managing service.
	2.with lambda you can run code for virtually any type of application or backend service.
	3.lambda manages all admin works
		A.provisoning and capcacity of computing,balance of memory.
		B.OS maintaing
		C.High availability and auto scaling.
		D.Monitoring fleet health.
		E.Applying security patchs
		F.Deploying your code.
		G.Monitoring and logging of lambda function.
		F.HIgh availability compute infra.

you pay only for the compute time you consume no charge when your code is not running.

currently running service language:
	1.Node js
	2.Java
	3.Power shell
	4.C#
	5.Python
	6.Ruby
	7.Google Go2
	
Lambda-Function as a service(blling in milisecond range)
EC2-Infrastructure as a service.(upto per second or hourly basic)

Function:
	A function is a resource that you can invoke to run your code in aws lambda.a function has code that processess events and in runtime that passess request and response between lambda and the function code.
	
Runtime:
	lambda runtimes allows function in different languages to run in the same base execution engine.

Event:
	a Json formatted documentation that contains data for the function.
	
Event Source/Trigger:
	an aws service such as SNS,or a custom service that triggers your function and executes its logic.
	
Downstream resources:
	aws services such as dynamo db tables or s3 bucket that triggers your function and executes its logic.
	
Concurrency:
	No of request that your funtion runs serves in any given time.
	
	
Minimum memory for lambda 128MB to 3008MB maximum, memory should be increased by 64MB multiplication,

greater than 1536MB momory function aws will provide multiple CPU thread will provide.

minimum run time for lambda-3 secound
maximum run time for lambda function is 900sec(15min)

lambda can access aws service and non aws services.

non aws services running on ec2 instances in an aws vpc or ec2.

however to access the aws or non aws service running in private vpc access is needed.

Different type of lambda invocation:

	A.Synchronous invoke
	B.Asynchronous 
	C.Poll based.







	

	



