VPC(Virtual Private cloud):

A virtual private cloud is a virtual network that closely resembles a traditional networking that you can operate in your own datacenter,with the benefits of using the scalable infrastructure of AWS.



VPC default template:

	1.per Region max 5 VPC can be created.(not in Account)
	2.per VPC max 200Subnet we can create.
	created.(5*200=1000 per region)
	3.200 Routing table also created per vpc.
	3.5 elastic IP we can take per account.
	4.once VPC created DHCP,NACL and Security group will be created automatically.
	5.VPC will be created in Region.

Default VPC:
	1.can be deleted.(if deleted can be restored)
	2.has default CIDR,Security Grp,NACL,and ROute Table.
	3.has default Internet Gatway.
Customed VPC:
	1.As per requirement.
	2.CIDR can be decided CIDR.
	3.IG has to be created.
	
This sequence must be followed by:

Create VPC:->Create Subnet->Create IG->Create Route Table

Public Subnet:
	if a subnet having tarffice direct to IG.
	Ec2 Instance should have public IP
	
Private Subnet:
	this subnet will not have no route to IG.
	
when you create a vPC ypu must specify on IPV4 CIDR block for VPC the allowed block /16 to /28 network.

Inside subnet:these 5 will be blocked.
 suppose 10.0.0.0/16 for a subnet
	1.10.0.0.0->network address
	2.10.0.0.1->reserved by AWS for VPC route
	3.10.0.0.2->Reserved for DNS server
	4.10.0.0.3->future use
	5.10.0.0.255->direct droadcast address
	
to check public subnet->check route table->any logged IP with IG.

public and private subnet can talk inside VPC thrugh route table.

Implied Route & Route Table:

	1.200 route table/VPC
	2.50 entry/route table
	3.each subnet must be associated only one route table at a time.
	4.if you not associate with any route table by default it will be associated with default route table.
	5.main route table cant be deleted,and it can be modified.
	
	
Internet Gateway:
	1.logical entity(virtual)
	2.virtual router that connects a VPC with internet.
	3.default VPC by default attached to Interenet Gateway.
	4.it supports IPV4 and IPV6
	
NAT Gateways:(Network Address Translation):(PAT: port address translation)

	1.NAT gateways to eneble instances in a private subnet to connect to the internet or other AWS services,but prevent the iternet from initiating a conenction with these instance.
	
	2.you are chared for creating andusing a NAT gateway in your account.
	
	3.to create NAT gateway ,must specify the public subnet in which NAT gateway should reside.
	
	4.you must also specify an elestic IP address to associate with NAT gateway when you create it.
	
	5.No nned to assign public IP address to your private instance.
	
	6.public subnet->web server, internet facing application instance.
	
	7.private subnet->database server.
	
	8.After you have created a NAT G you must update the route table associated with one ormore of your private subnets to point internet bound traffic to the NAT G.
	
	9.Deleting a NAT G,disassociates its elastic IP address but does not release the address frm your account.
	
Security Group:subnet leve security
	1.it is a virtual firewall works at ENI level(top of hypervision).
	
	2. upto 5 security groups per EC2 instance interface can be applied.
	
	3.security group can be shared through  ec2 instances.
	
	4.It can only allow rules
	
	5.stateful,means both inbound and outbound.
	
NACL(Network Access Control List):on AZ level
	1.Its is a function performed on the implied router.
	
	2.NACL is an optional layer of security for your VPC that acts as a firewall for controllingtraffic out of one ore more subnets
	
	3.your vpc actually comes with a modifiable default network ACL by default,it allows all inbound and outbound IPV4 traffic and if applicable,IV6 also.
	
	4.you can create a customer network ACL and associate it with a subnet by default,each custm netwrok ACL denies all inbound and outboundtraffic untill you add rules.
	
	5.each subnet in yout vpc must be associated with a NACL,if its not explicitly done,then it will be associated with default one.
	
	6.one NCAL can be attached with multiple subnets,but each subnet must be associted with only one NACL.
	
	7.a NCAL contains a numbered list of rules that can be evaluated by order.
	setting with lowest to higher and priority will be follows.
	
	8.max number of rules 32766.rule number must be multiple of 100.
	
	9.NACL is Stateless,both inbound and outbound rules will be considered seperately as permit an ddeny rule.
	
VPC Peering: 
	Communication betweentwo  			seperate private VPC
	
	1.VPC peering connection is networking connecction between two vpc that enables you to route traffic between them using private IPV4 addresses or IPV6 addresses.
	
	2.intances in either VPC can communicate with each other as if they are within the same network.
	
	3.you can create a VPC peering connection between your own VPC or with a VPC in another AWS account,the VPC can be in different region.
	
	4. VPC A peers VPC B and VPC B peers VPC A,then communication between VPC A and C not possible,Transitive Peering.
	
----------------------------------------------------------
VPC FAQ:


1.Can I use Provisioned IOPS with VPC?-Yes

2.To ensure failover capabilities, consider using a _____ for incoming traffic on a network
interface”.


	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	